---
layout: page
title: Hazard Reporting
include_in_header: false
order: 3
---

# Become our next 311-enabled city

Bike/Ped Advocacy Groups can skip straight to the [application](/311application) or read on to learn how our One Tap 311 Reporting can bolster your existing advocacy work.

## 311 Advocacy Makes Streets Safer

Bicycle riders can record their rides using their smartphone and the dashcam.bike app.
In select cities, our One Tap Hazard Reporting lets bicyclists send the everyday hazards they encounter to their local government.

Most American cities want data in a specific database: their 311 report database.

While a handful of reports may not be impactful, our One-Tap Hazard Reporting makes it easy for hundreds of bicycle riders to make thousands of reports.
In Pittsburgh, after hundreds of reports of cars parked in the downtown bike lanes, the city [added concrete protection to the Penn Ave bike lane](https://www.pghcitypaper.com/news/advocates-celebrate-city-funding-for-penn-avenue-bike-lane-upgrades-23023598), effectively eliminating the problem.

We've received requests from users in dozens of cities across the world to bring our One-Tap Reporting to their city.
In response, for the first time, we're taking applications from Bike/Ped Safety Organizations across the world.

## Apply to be our next 311-enabled city
Bike/ped advocacy organizations can [apply](/311application) to be our next 311-enabled city.

If you are an individual, please reach out to your local bike/ped advocacy group and ask them to fill out the application. Individuals may also fill out our [interest form](/311requestform) to express their interest.


Applications will be rated on:
1. **Impact**. How much impact will our one-tap 311 reporting have on your advocacy?
2. **Scale**. How many riders will be submitting reports?
3. **Connectivity**. How will we connect with your city's 311 system? Is it likely that your city will "block" our 311 capability?
4. **Equity**. Will we be boosting already-known voices, or helping new voices be heard?


<center>
<a href="/311application">
  <button class="buyAmazonButton bigButton">Apply Now</button>
</a>
<p>
    <i>Application Deadline: January 30th, 2024.</i>
</p>
</center>

# How we work
We won't enable 311 reporting in a city without the excitement of your local bike/ped advocacy group. Advocacy always starts locally. Our one-tap 311 reporting can boost existing advocacy efforts, but it can never replace what you do on the ground.

[Read about how our 311 reporting in Pittsburgh](https://www.pghcitypaper.com/news/advocates-celebrate-city-funding-for-penn-avenue-bike-lane-upgrades-23023598) helped boost the advocacy efforts of BikePGH. After nearly a decade of their advocacy, riders in Pittsburgh flooded 311 with thousands of reports of cars parked in the bike lane. The data, combined with BikePGH's advocacy, made it impossible for the city to ignore bicyclists: concrete-protected bike lanes were finally installed.


# How to submit a report
When you encounter a hazard while riding, tap the screen to highlight the moment.
When you're safely at your destination, use our one-tap 311 reporting tool to automatically forward that hazard to decision makers in your city.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4k7kqJt_1Vs?si=LrTZ56xOoWlqFrF6" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# FAQs
<div id="faqs">
    {% for faq in site.faqs311 %}
        <button class="accordion">
            <span class="fa-stack fa-1x">
                <i class="iconBack fas fa-circle fa-stack-2x"></i>
                <i class="iconTop fas fa-{{ faq.fontawesome_icon_name }} fa-stack-1x"></i>
            </span>
            {{ faq.title }}
        </button>
        <div class="panel">
            {% for paragraph in faq.description %}
                <p>
                    {% if forloop.index0 == 0 %}<b> {% endif %}
                        {{ paragraph }}
                    {% if forloop.index0 == 0 %}</b> {% endif %}
                </p>
            {% endfor %}
        </div>
    {% endfor %}
</div>
<script src="/assets/accordion.js"></script>
